

Alaska is the 49th state in the United States, located in the northern most part of North America bordering Canada to the east. While it's the largest state in the U.S., taking up one fifth of the country's land area, it's home to just over 730,000 people, many of whom live in the cities of Anchorage and Juneau. Alaska is a land of rugged and beautiful scenery, abundant wildlife and a unique culture, especially among the Alaska Native population that has lived in the area for centuries. 

The first known people to live in Alaska are believed to have been members of the Paleo-Eskimo culture, who arrived in the area approximately 11,000 years ago. For centuries, they lived as nomads, hunting and gathering food for sustenance. Russian settlers began arriving in the early 1800s, establishing the colony of Russian America and bringing European goods and ideas. The United States purchased Alaska from Russia in 1867, and it became an official state in 1959. 

Alaska attracts over two million visitors each year, many of whom come to take part in outdoor activities and admire the breathtaking countryside. Fishing, hunting, skiing, rafting, and kayaking are popular activities, as are hiking, camping, and exploring the wilderness. Glaciers, mountains, waterways, and a diverse array of wildlife stretching across forests, tundra, and coastal areas provide endless opportunities for exploration. The longest hiking trail in the United States, the historic Iditarod Trail, stretches nearly 1,200 miles through Alaska. 

The state is home to three distinct national parks, Denali, Glacier Bay, and Wrangell-St. Elias, that offer lively views of wildlife and magnificent glaciers. Spanning almost 10 million acres, Wrangell-St. Elias is the largest national park in the U.S. and encompasses 9 of the 16 highest peaks in the country. There are also numerous Alaska State Parks, providing good access to beaches, lakes, trails, and other sites for campers, hikers, boaters, and anglers. 

The Native Alaskan population is made up of numerous distinct cultures, including Indian, Aleut, and Eskimo. These tribes have a rich culture and traditions that have been passed down for centuries. Yokut and Inupiat, two of the many local languages spoken, are gaining recognition and respect throughout Alaska. 

The culture of Alaska is closely related to the state's natural beauty, wildness, and spirit of adventure. The culture of Alaska is further enriched by the large immigrant population that has found a way to make Alaska their home. The state has residents who trace their origins to dozens of other countries, including Italy, Philippines, Norway, Russia, and China. Such diversity has strengthened the culinary landscape, with restaurants and markets featuring flavors from around the world. 

Perhaps most noticeable in Alaska culture is the excitement over long daylight during the summer months and extended twilight during winter. Taking advantage of the long days, many people in Alaska enjoy outdoor activities such as golf, biking, sailing, and fishing.

Alaska is a land of astounding natural diversity. From its capital city of Juneau to its most remote areas, the state offers visitors awe-inspiring scenery, thrilling outdoor activities, and a unique cultural experience. With its enchanting landscape and wide array of entertainment, Alaska is a place like no other.