

Edgar Allan Poe is remembered as one of the most influential figures in American literature. Known primarily for his works of horror and mystery, he is today remembered as a master of the macabre. From gruesome tales of crime and murder to horrifically fascinating poetry, his writing still resonates with readers today.

Edgar Allan Poe was born in Boston in 1809 to two traveling actors, David and Eliza Poe. His parents had both lost previous spouses as the result of yellow fever; David’s wife and Eliza’s parents had passed away when he was just a small child. Poe was orphaned at the age of three and was taken in by a wealthy tobacco merchant. He was raised in Richmond, Virginia.

While Poe was growing up, he was encouraged to pursue his creativity and imagination. He avidly read a number of books, mainly classic literature and science fiction, and began writing poetry and short stories at quite a young age. His first published work, “Tamerlane,” appeared under the pseudonym “A Bostonian” in the spring of 1827.

With his increasing literary reputation, Poe was accepted to the University of Virginia in 1826. During his brief time there, he excelled academically – particularly in languages and mathematics – but struggled due to gambling debts, alcohol and drug abuse. He also broke off an engagement with a young woman in order to pursue his writing career.

After a short and unsuccessful time at West Point, Poe was determined to make his mark in the literary world. He returned to Baltimore and got to work, writing and publishing a range of short stories, poems and essays. His works gained popularity quickly and Poe was soon seen as the preeminent poet of his era.

At the same time, his work began to be explored by psychologists and literary critics for the insight they provided into the workings of the human mind. Poe’s most famous stories, such as “The Tell-Tale Heart” and “The Black Cat,” have since been the subject of much research and have contributed to various theories on the workings of the subconscious.

As Poe’s work became more popular, his personal life seemed to suffer. His marriage to a cousin in 1835 resulted in a daughter who died soon after birth. His wife passed away four years later, leaving an emotional and financial void in Poe’s life. It was during this period that he created some of his most memorable pieces, including “The Raven.”

Poe died in Baltimore on October 7, 1849. There is much speculation and debate over the cause of death, and aside from the date and location, almost nothing is known for certain. What is certain, however, is that we have lost one of the most influential and provocative writers in American literature. Now nearly two centuries after his death, his works remain as powerful today as when they were first written.

Poe’s influence extends far past horror and mystery and his work has affected areas such as film, music, and graphic novels. He pioneered new ways of looking at the human experience and spawned a type of literature entirely unto itself. Without a doubt, Edgar Allan Poe remains one of the most popular and influential writers of all time.