

Germanic languages are a branch of the Indo-European language family, centered mainly in Europe and the northern continents. Germanic languages are related to the Romance languages, such as French and Italian, which descended from the language of the ancient Romans. The Germanic languages are surprisingly diverse and have changed and evolved over the centuries, creating multiple dialects and varieties from languages which are closely related.

As part of the Indo-European language family, the Germanic languages first originated in the Proto-Indo-European language of more than 4,000 years ago. In the designated Proto-Germanic language of more than 2,000 years ago, Germanic languages are thought to have branched out and eventually lost a number of features including the Alemannic, Lombardic, Dutch, Frisian, Frankish and High German dialects.

Today, Germanic languages are spoken predominantly in Europe, Scandinavia, the British Isles and the United States. Germanic languages are considered to be the major language family in those areas and are divided into four groups: West Germanic, North Germanic, East Germanic and High Germanic.

West Germanic languages are the most widely spoken of the Germanic language family and mostly includes the German, Dutch and English languages. The German language itself is the most widely spoken within the family and is a major language of education and business throughout the world. Dutch is the second-most widely spoken language in the family and is the official language of the Netherlands. English, spoken by almost one billion people, is the third-most widely spoken language in the Germanic language family and is the international language of business and diplomacy.

North Germanic languages are spoken in Scandinavia and include Danish, Norwegian, Swedish, Icelandic and Faroese. Danish is spoken by almost 6 million people and is one of two official languages of Denmark. Norwegian began to diverge from Danish in the late Middle Ages and is spoken by over 5 million people in Norway. For many years, two main dialects of Norwegian have existed: written Norwegian and spoken Norwegian. Swedish is mainly spoken in Sweden and Finland by over 9 million people and is a native language of the Sami in Scandinavia and the Kven people in northern Norway.

East Germanic languages are extinct and include the Gothic language, which was spoken in the western sections of the Roman Empire in the 4th and 5th centuries. This language has mostly been reconstructed through analysis of existing texts in the Gothic alphabet and syntax. Gothic was the first Germanic language to be written down, in the 4th century CE. Along with its use among the Germanic Goths, it was also used by the Huns.

High Germanic languages are more distantly related to the West Germanic languages and are divided into three major sections: High German, Luxembourgish and Yiddish. High German is the official language of Germany and Austria, and is also spoken in many other countries including Liechtenstein, Switzerland, Belgium and parts of the United States. Luxembourgish is spoken mainly by around 390,000 people in the grand duchy of Luxembourg and is a sister language of both German and French. Yiddish, the only Yiddish language still in existence, is mainly spoken by around a million people in Europe, the US, Canada, Australia, the Far East and Israel. Yiddish is a full language, with a recognizable grammar, syntax, literature and media.

Germanic languages have undergone a major transformation over the past two millennia. While these languages have remained relatively close to their original form, they have also diverged over time into distinct languages and dialects. The Germanic languages represent a major language family in the world, spoken by over four hundred million people in countries around the world.