

Alaska is a land of incredible beauty and a varied and storied history. Located in the northwestern corner of North America, Alaska is the largest and most sparsely populated state in the United States. Alaska's history reaches back thousands of years, and is intertwined with the stories of Native Alaskan tribes, Russian Russells and Gold Rush fortune-seekers. In the modern era, Alaska's role in the markets, media and culture of the United States has been unmissable. Here is a brief look at the fascinating history of Alaska.

The history of Alaska begins with its Native Alaskan tribes. These tribes became settled in Alaska during various migrations and due to the harsh environment of the region, their culture and lifestyle remains very much intact to this day. The Yupik, Inupiat, Athabascans, Aleuts, Tlingit and Haida are the major tribes and cultures that inhabit Alaska, some of whom have been living in the area for thousands of years.

The modern history of Alaska began with the discovery of the region by the Russians. Vitus Bering was the first explorer from Russia to spot Alaska in 1741. Russians who followed him to the Alaskan region and built forts and trading posts in order to capture the sealing and fur trading industry in the area. In 1867, Russia sold Alaska to the United States for $7.2 million in what was then the largest land acquisition in U.S. history.

The area was first called the Department of Alaska on the U.S. side, and was then renamed as the District of Alaska in 1884. This designation represented a large area, much larger than the current boundaries of Alaska, and was the first indication of the eventual statehood for Alaska. The U.S. government continued to add more land during this time, ultimately purchasing the rights to Alaska from Russia in 1867.

When the United States acquired Alaska, Gold was discovered on the beaches of the Nome area in 1898, bringing fortune-seekers from all over the world to the Alaskan territory. This era became known as the Klondike gold rush, and many men and women left behind their homes to seek their fortune in the Alaskan gold fields. This gold rush period gave the United States an initial burst of financial energy and brought thousands of eager entrepreneurs to the U.S. from other countries.

The gold rush period was short-lived, with the peak of the gold rush lasting from 1898 to 1901. As the gold rush era ended, the Alaskan economy shifted towards fishing and timber. This shift in industry marked the transition from gold rush miners to permanent settlers and Alaskans. With the changing of the Alaskan economy, it was now possible for homesteaders to stake their claim to the unoccupied land in Alaska and establish the villages and farms which rapidly developed into cities and towns. With the emergence of these cities and towns, the political developments of the state began, and in 1913, Alaska gained first class judicial and executive branches.

Alaska became the 49th state of the United States on January 3, 1959, ending the status of territorial government. A period of rapid growth and expansion began when oil was discovered in the area in 1964. The discovery of oil in Prudhoe Bay in Northern Alaska marked the beginning of the modern period for Alaska. The construction of the Alaskan Pipeline in 1977-78 led to an unprecedented surge in the economy of Alaska which continues to the present day.

Alaska's economy and environment have been drastically changed by a number of different events over the course of the state's history. Dramatic events such as the 1964 Great Alaska Earthquake, the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill, and the 2020 Sockeye Creek Wildfire, have illuminated the importance of natural disasters in Alaska's history.

Alaska continues to be an integral part of the American landscape, and its history and development remain fascinating to many. With its unique geography, culture and history, Alaska is a place for adventure and exploration. It's a land of extremes, but it also a place of beauty and promise. The history of Alaska continues to evolve, with the land and people forging a unique identity that will remain in history books for decades to come.