

History of Alaska

Alaska is the largest and most sparsely populated US state. It is also the northernmost of the lower 48 states and is one of the five US states that border both Canada and the US. The history of Alaska dates back at least 15,000 years and includes American industries, explorers, traders, adventurers, and immigrants from around the world.

The first inhabitants of Alaska were the Haida and Tlingit Indians. They settled on the Alaskan coasts around 10,000 BC, hunting and fishing for food. They were followed by the Athabascans who came between 1000 to 2000 BC and were the first to introduce a hunter-gatherer culture in Alaska.

In the late 1700s, Europeans sailed through the Audubon Passage and were the first to establish a settlement on the Alaskan mainland. In 1741, Vitus Bering of Russia founded the first settlement--Fort St. Michael--at the head of the Alaska Peninsula, sparking Russian exploration of Alaska. The Russians hunted and trapped fur seals for their fur and hunted for land to colonize in the Alaskan interior.

By the mid-1800s, the United States and Russia were involved in the Alaska Purchase. On March 30, 1867, the purchase was finalized and Alaska was officially part of the US. This event kick-started the gold rush of the late 1800s, drawing thousands of miners from around the world.

 During the gold rush, many people faced harsh conditions and exploitation by the US government. Native Alaskans experienced added challenges in the form of violent displacement and exploitation by miners. Others immigrated to parts of Alaska to work and play. This included the Chinese immigrants who came to seek their fortune in gold and participate in fishing, hunting, and trading. Alaska Native peoples were increasingly restricted in their access to hunting, fishing, and harvesting resources.

In 1912, the US government passed the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA). This provided Native Alaskans recognition of their culture and right to their land and resources. This also led to the formation of the 13 Native Alaskan regional corporations with the main goal of benefiting the Natives through economic development.

In 1959, Alaska was admitted as the 49th US state. This led to increased economic development, population growth, and the exploitation of natural resources. This included the Alaska Land Act, which is designed to preserve and manage the state’s lands, subsurface resources, and timber rights. Alaska is also home to seven national parks and 16 national wildlife refuges.

In recent years, Alaska has become a popular destination for recreational travelers. It has become a popular source of seafood, natural gas, oil, coal, and timber. The wildlife, spectacular forests, and Native cultures have also been used to attract tourists to the state. Today, more than 735,000 people live in Alaska--44% of whom are of Native Alaskan descent and 40% who identify as white. 

The history of Alaska is one that is full of diverse people, cultures, and events. It has become a part of the US for over 150 years and has experienced immigration, colonization, and economic growth. Today, visitors can explore Alaska to gain a greater understanding of its unique and diverse history. 