

When Lou Reed died on October 27, 2013, the music world lost an iconic figure. He had been a rock and roll pioneer for more than 40 years, delivering gritty but often beautiful music to fans around the world. Born Lewis Alan Reed in Brooklyn, New York, on March 2nd, 1942, Reed was raised in the predominately Jewish Freeport area of Long Island. At an early age Reed developed an interest in literature, particularly the works of Edgar Allan Poe, and he would later credit his love of the macabre short stories as the driving force behind his own songwriting.

Reed attended Syracuse University, and while a student there, he composed what would become his breakthrough song, “Sally Can’t Dance.” After a brief stint in the army, Reed recruited guitarist Sterling Morrison, bassist John Cale, and drummer Maureen Tucker and formed the Velvet Underground, one of the earliest and most influential bands to merge elements of experimental avant-garde and rock and roll.

In 1967, the Velvet Underground released their debut album, The Velvet Underground & Nico, which included such iconic tracks as “Heroin” and “Sunday Morning.” The record became a cult classic and helped to inspire generations of punk, new wave, and alternative rock fans. Reed departed from the Velvet Underground in 1970 to pursue a solo career, releasing a self-titled debut album in 1972 that was followed by classics such as Transformer and Berlin.

During his long solo career, Reed released a total of 22 studio albums. His vocal style was a unique mixture of sneering aggression, spoken-word monologuing, and a fragile vocal gentleness that made some of his most famous songs such as “Perfect Day” and “Walk on the Wild Side” true classics. He was also known for his collaborations with innovative artists such as David Bowie, Nico, and Metallica.

Reed’s influence is undeniable, as he was not only a highly visionary and eccentric songwriter but also a fearless performance artist. Although his career was not always celebrated by the mainstream, critics often lauded his efforts and realistically stated that he was a star with an “incalculable importance.” Personally, he was known to be very opinionated, dry-witted, and often very difficult to work with. His numerous legal run-ins and recreational rebellion didn’t help his public reputation any more than his tendency to inject social and political statements into his songs.

At age 71, Reed succumbed to liver failure brought on by years of hard living and health problems. Although Reed will be remembered as a rock ’n’ roll legend, his legacy is also one of fearless experimentation and innovative risk-taking. Along with the Velvet Underground, he helped to create the blueprint for alternative music that would influence an entire generation of musicians (and fans) to follow in his footsteps. He produced un-romanticized dystopian soundscapes and unsettling, emotionally eroding looks at contemporary life, providing listeners with a sharp slice of culture, art, and raw humanity.

The world mourned the loss of Lou Reed but, as is the case with any legend, he will never truly be gone. His music, his ideas, and his unexpected wit will live on forever, and countless generations will discover the magic of his strange and often difficult sound. Those who knew Reed or simply heard his music may very well be inspired to create something that resembles his own daring ambition. As John Cale said so eloquently in one interview: “We cannot be the Lou Reed generation. We can only be those touched and influenced by Lou Reed.”