

Lou Reed was an iconic American rock musician, songwriter, composer and singer who was the lead vocalist, guitarist and principal songwriter for the legendary rock band The Velvet Underground. He is widely recognized as one of the most influential figures in music history. With a pioneering, unique sound and a keen sense of lyrical and literary prowess, Reed made his mark on popular music for decades. A life-long pioneer, he continually pushed the boundaries of sound and helped to define generations of music fans across the world.

Born on March 2, 1942 in New York, NY, Reed was raised in Freeport, Long Island. He was the oldest child of Toby (Levy) and Sidney Reed, and the only male. His father worked as an accountant. Music was his first passion, and he picked up both guitar and harmonica when he was still in elementary school. He wrote his first song at the age of 15.

Reed briefly attended Syracuse University, but eventually transferred to the prestigious New York University, where he would earn a degree in film and television writing. It was during this time at college that he was introduced to The Velvet Underground, a band assembled by musician/artist Andy Warhol in 1965. Reed would soon become its lead singer and co-songwriter, writing songs for their debut album, “The Velvet Underground & Nico” (1967). Along with his lead singing and guitar playing, Reed wrote songs that explored taboo topics including drugs, sex, and sociopolitical themes. While the album was not commercially successful at first, it later gained recognition as an influential classic.

Reed wrote and produced other gems throughout the next decade, including 1972’s “Transformer,” which featured his only two Top 40 hits, “Walk on the Wild Side” and “Satellite of Love.” Reed left the band in 1972, but would continue to collaborate with former bandmates. In 1975, he created “Metal Machine Music”, a two-LP album of experimental noise music that would be described by one critic as the “wedding suit of rock and roll.”

Throughout the '70s, '80s and '90s, Reed released a string of albums that showed he consistently pushed the boundaries of rock music and what is expected from a rock and roll artist. He pursued musical styles open to his interpretation, and he never stopped exploring.

In 2000, Reed surprised fans and critics alike with his album, “Ecstasy”, a mix of rock, art, and ambient music. This collection marked a turning point in Reed’s career, as he began to focus on more personal and intimate stories. His 2004 album, “The Raven”, was a return to his roots and featured a duet between Reed and friend, Rob Zombie.

In 2009, Reed was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, alongside former Velvet Underground bandmates. In 2013, he released his final studio album, “Lulu,” a ten-song collaboration with Metallica that received mixed reviews but still made it to number two on the US rock charts. 

On October 27th, 2013, Lou Reed passed away from liver failure in Southampton, NY. At the time of his death, he was renowned for creating a unique form of music that had a tremendous influence on popular culture, from punk and grunge rock to hip-hop and electronic music. His iconic songs helped define generations of music fans and will be remembered for generations to come.  His contribution to music will never be forgotten.