

Lou Reed was one of the most influential and respected singers, songwriters, and musicians of the late 20th century, whose work with The Velvet Underground and as a solo artist laid the foundation of alternative rock music and punk rock. With a career spanning decades and genres, he was a central figure in the development of both genres, and his influence can be seen on each wave of artists that followed in his footsteps.

Reed was born in Brooklyn, New York, as Lewis Allan Reed; his family were Jewish and his parents, Toby and Sidney, were both teachers. His father was also an accountant and ardent Communist, and the political ideologies of his youth would become a muse and inspiration for many of his songs later in life. Reed took up music at an early age and eventually studied at Syracuse University, where he learned to play guitar. During this time, he played in a college group named The Jades and studied literature, subjects which informed his creative work.

In 1965, Reed joined a band in New York called The Primitives, which become The Velvet Underground in 1966, when Reed replaced their previous singer and songwriter. Alongside fellow members John Cale, Sterling Morrison, and Moe Tucker, Reed led the band through multiple line-up changes and evolutions in sound. The band's concept album The Velvet Underground and Nico (1967) is cited as one of the most influential of the time, with lyricist Lou Reed writing the lyrics for most songs. The album became the foundation for modern-day alternative rock music; its 'ugly' sound influenced generations of post-punk bands, from Sonic Youth to R.E.M.

In 1970, Lou Reed and Velvet Underground co-founder John Cale parted ways amicably. Reed quickly started his solo career, signing with RCA Records and releasing his first solo album, Lou Reed, in 1972. Picks from the album, “Walk On The Wild Side” and “Perfect Day,” remain two of his most famous songs. Throughout the 70s, Reed created genre-defining music as a solo artist, working with various musical collaborators. His work included collaborations with David Bowie on his Berlin trilogy and influence on the punk and New Wave scene.

In 1983, Reed released his sixteenth studio album, Legendary Hearts, which he followed up with New Sensations (1984), Mistrial (1986), and New York (1989), an album which earned him a Grammy Award nomination. He released several more albums through the 90s, the most successful of which were Magic and Loss (1991) and Set the Twilight Reeling (1994).

Though remembered primarily for his music, in the later years of his career Lou Reed also immersed himself in poetry, photography, and painting. His visual art pieces have been shown all over the world and featured on various magazines and newspapers, including Rolling Stone. He published his first book of photographs in 2005, titled Emotions in Action.

Reed died in New York City in October of 2013, due to complications of liver cancer. His musical contributions, both with The Velvet Underground and as a solo artist, ensure that he is remembered as one of the most influential alternative and punk rock musicians of all time. His use of sound experimentation, nuanced lyrics, and unique vocal style all combined to create a body of work which has greatly influence generations of current day artists. To this day, Reed's work remains a classic example of how impactful the marriage of music and poetry can be.