

McDonalds is one of the most iconic American fast food chains. The company plays a large part in American culture, from its advertisements to its franchises located all over the country. Founded in 1940, the company currently operates over 37,000 locations around the globe and in 2017, had an estimated income of $22.8 billion dollars. While it may be most commonly known for its burgers, McDonalds offers a variety of menu items, from salads, wraps, nuggets, and shakes, to breakfast and McCafe items like coffees and other beverages. 

McDonalds began when brothers Maurice and Richard McDonald, along with business partner and investor, Ray Kroc, opened their first restaurant in San Bernardino, California. Kroc, an Illinois-based milkshake machine salesman, aggressively promoted the franchising of McDonald's restaurants and is now credited with turning the business into a global empire. By the 1960s, McDonald's boasted more than 900 restaurants in the United States, with international locations beginning to open in Canada in 1967. 

Kroc's franchising model simplified the restaurant making it easier to operate and quickly spread the brand’s reach. McDonald’s even became so popular; it was commonly credited as the fastest growing company in American history. The hamburger was its most iconic menu item, with the company’s signature Big Mac sandwich becoming one of the most widely recognized products of the 20th century. 

McDonald’s also utilizes an expansive advertising network. They have successfully created advertisements and sponsored events that sync with current culture. The network also includes shooting commercials, developing print and billboards options, creating radio spots, and running outdoor advertising. Several of the company’s most successful advertising campaigns include, “You Deserve a Break Today” in 1971, “It’s a Good Time for the Greast Taste of McDonald’s” in 1979, and “I’m Lovin’ It” in 2003. 

In recent years, McDonalds has expanded its menu to include some healthier and organic options like salads, fruit, and wraps. It has also diversified its menu to include McCafe products like croissants, oatmeal, and espresso-based drinks. With an attempt to keep up with changing trends, McDonald’s has also stepped up its game in terms of sustainability. It has decreased the emission of greenhouse gases in its supply chain, improved its packaging, and educated its customers on animal welfare. 

McDonalds is an iconic brand that is known for its delicious food, worldwide presence, and competitive prices. Though some criticize the company’s menu for its high fat content, there is no doubt that McDonald's remains one of the most recognizable and loved fast food brands of the 21st century. From its expanding menu options, to its increased focus on sustainability, to its array of iconic advertisements, it is clear that McDonalds will continue to stay at the head of the fast food industry for years to come.