

The Raven

Edgar Allan Poe's poem "The Raven" is considered one of the great works from the master of the macabre. Published on January 29th, 1845, in the New York Evening Mirror, "The Raven" tells the story of a lone man plagued by a raven who relentlessly repeats the word "Nevermore".

The poem follows a man who is deep in mourning for his lost love, Lenore, and has gone into his study to find solace. He becomes disturbed by a sudden knocking at his door and is surprised to find that it is a raven. The bird lands on a bust of a Greek deity and begins to repeat a single word, "Nevermore".

The man is intrigued by the bird’s and interrogates him as to why he speaks that word and what it means. The raven, a supernatural creature, symbolizes his sadness and hopelessness as all its answers are simply “nevermore”. 

As the poem progresses, the narrator becomes more distressed and disturbed, ultimately losing any delusional sense of hope as the bird continues to haunt him. This despair is not only caused by the fact that he will never see his lost love again, but that no solace will ever return to him. The bird becomes his confidante as he muses his sorrows and weeps for his lost love Lenore. He tries desperately to take his own life in a mindset of utter despair, but cannot find the courage to do so; a symbol of human life in the state of grief. 

The narrator portrays grief as a menacing force in his life that haunts him continually, just as the raven does. His pain and loneliness is incomparable, and the repetition of the word “Nevermore” gives him a sense of detachment from reality and society. 

Poe has left his readers with much to ponder through his poem. He has managed to create imagery in such a way that we can feel the narrators sorrow and pity his aching heart. He has also connected grief to a force of nature, in which one is powerless of controlling. He gives readers a glimpse into the abyss of loneliness and sorrow that can come with the death of a loved one. 

All in all, Poe's use of language and symbolism in "The Raven" is masterful and has left a lasting impression on readers. From the imagery of death to the hopeless despair of the narrator, Poe has given us a piece of literature that will continue to be studied and admired for years to come.