

Vernacular English is a form of communication used by people who speak English as their first language. It is an important part of the culture of the language and can be the difference between effective and ineffective communication. Knowing the nuances of verbal vernacular English can help to both gain knowledge and to increase understanding among people from different backgrounds.

To understand vernacular English, it is necessary to first understand the concept of dialects. Dialects are particular forms of the language that are used by particular populations of people. Dialects can vary by region, by class, or by ethnicity. Each dialect has a unique combination of vocabulary and grammar that reflects the culture of the society in which it is used. Vernacular English is a form of dialogue that is used by people in their interactions with each other, and is distinct from formal English, which is generally used in school and in other forms of formal communication.

Vernacular English is spoken by people of all ages, backgrounds, and socio-economic classes. The specific form of the dialect used generally depends on the community in which it is spoken. However, there are certain aspects of the dialect that are shared by all vernacular English speakers. Generally, colloquialisms and slang expressions are common to the language. Certain expressions, such as "y'all" and "lit" may be used only in certain areas of the country. Furthermore, pronunciation of words may take on certain regional qualities, such as the pronunciation of "ask" as "axe." Some words are shortened or slurred as well; for example, "what" may be uttered as "wat."

In addition to pronunciation, word choice and grammar usage differ in vernacular English. Grammar may be more lenient than formal English, allowing for certain expressions to be used that would not be accepted in formal English. In addition, certain suffixes may be dropped, such as the "-ing" in "eating," or the "s" in "cats." Different dialects may also use slightly different word order than found in standard English. For example, in some forms of vernacular English the sentence "I want it" may be expressed as "It I want."

The use of vernacular English can have both positive and negative results for the speaker. On the one hand, the use of vernacular English allows a speaker to express themselves in a way that may be more natural or understandable for their audience. This can result in an easier and more enjoyable conversation. On the other hand, the use of vernacular English can be seen as lazy or uneducated, as it is far from standard English. The use of vernacular English in certain situations can be seen as inappropriate and could potentially lead to misunderstandings.

Despite its drawbacks, vernacular English is an important aspect of the English language. Not only does it provide a way for people to express themselves, but it is also reflective of the culture of its members. Furthermore, those members of the population which possess knowledge of vernacular English can bridge the gap between understandings of different social and regional dialects. Thus, it can be seen as an important part of both communication and culture.